Backflash 
By Jessica Maison 
Tremors shoot though my left, and then my right hand, fire crackling along electrical  wiring. Tandem helicopter blades rotate across the bright blue summer sky with a womp womp-womp, circling closer and closer to the ground at the wrong angle, sending wobbly vibrations across the airfield right before an explosion rocks our small office, shaking my body  to its core. I cup my hand as I sprint toward the fire, rallying other nearby Marines. The CH-64 transforms into a flaming inferno, but we charge just like in training. We’re on the turret truck  attacking the flaming wreckage, covering the burning aircraft in foam before we even have time  to think of our own families. Most firefighters lose their lives in the backflash when the plane  explodes a second time while their trying to rescue the crew. I cut the electrical and pull the  charred soldier out of the melting metal, unable to take my eyes off the rotor blade buried 
deep in his burnt and bleeding skull. Dry heaving, sobs wrack my chest and torso. I know the face. I like the face. It’s the face of a friend, a captain. He’s got a wife and two kids. A second explosion detonates in my heart as I drag my friend from the pilot seat, hot air drying my tears and scorching my skin as my trembling body goes into autopilot, does what the Marine Corp.  trained it to do. Serve.  
Waking up sobbing, hands shaking, I rub my fingers one at a time. I push off the couch,  swaying, waiting for the light-headedness to pass and to feel balanced enough to walk to the  sink. Smoke and a synthetic chemical smell fill my nostrils and burn the back of my throat. Iron  and rotten eggs on my lips, the dream so vivid, remnants of the fire following me from my  couch to the kitchen. Gulping down a glass of water like I just fought that fire from long ago,  tears cascade down my tanned, wrinkled face like I just lost that young friend all over again. I  say I never saw the real shit, war ended before I shipped out. When that peace treaty was  signed, it was the happiest day of my life. I never wanted to kill a man. Never did kill a man.  Still, I pulled some good men out of some bad shit fighting fires for the Marines. Doc said I  might have PTSD. I just know I see the captain’s face on more nights than I’d like, especially  when the tremors wake me. Water tastes like metal and chemicals against my gums and  tongue. I spit it out. The taste remains. Better make some coffee. 
The coffee helps me drag my ass and my acoustic Martin down to the lake. Gonna rip through a few blues songs as the sun comes up, hopefully work my way through the hard parts  that used to be easy. Playing the guitar always helps, always has, especially as Parkinson’s and I  wage war against one another. In fairness, it started this fight. In group, they say the disease  really sneaks up on you. They speak the truth. One day I was playing Hello Cowgirl in the Sand
perfectly, and the next day I’m fighting to pluck a few of its chords. Still, the guitar helps, always  will.  
The blue light of dawn guides me to a chair on the quiet shore, one lone mallard gliding off the lake. The water is glass, reflecting those unnatural, spiraling shadows, a constant for the  last few months. My head jerks up to home in on the black, vertical cloud that span across the  entire skyscape, ascending rapidly like twirling giant squid with tentacles trailing as they return  to their shimmering holes in the ozone. I blink, and they disappear with the last bit of night,  replaced with sparkling trails racing by the corner of my eyes and a constant humming that  seems to come from under my skin.  
The sun peeks over the pines and oaks illuminating the sky, chasing any remaining  shadows away, and the bay reflects that light back to the heavens. For that moment, things are  as they should be, and the humming stops. I can think straight and remember everything just  right. I can see every moment of my life in perfect detail with absolute clarity. Looking up into  the clouds as they take shape in the morning light, I’m a young man with a young mind again.  As the sun rises higher, an iridescent veil descends from the home of the shadowy spirals,  engulfing each cloud it passes, shimmering across the sky as if pulsing in and out of wormholes between universes. I reach my hand out toward the shimmering, and the floral perfume my  wife wore on our first date hits my nostrils, and then the back of my throat. I’m wide awake,  entranced, and then transported far away from my lake, across the world, back in time, training  once again to be a firefighter. We’re doing a basic drill, spraying foam on a burning partial  plane, and through my helmet I spot the same iridescent patterns except much smaller, hardly  noticeable. They came and went back then, and I only saw them when wearing my helmet. 
Nobody else mentioned weird shit in the sky so I kept my mouth shut. Didn’t need a bad psych  evaluation on my record. They would appear like an opening to another world, or maybe just a warning. Come to think of it, when I saw these things back then, my water tasted funny too,  just like this morning. When I asked my superior officers about the water, they assured me the  water was fine, not to worry about it, so I kept drinking it. Much later, long after I stopped  seeing strange phenomenon, we learned that the water was indeed not fine. It poisoned everyone who drank it, left me with all kinds of gifts, the final cherry on top being Parkinson’s.  
A tremor shoots through the hand holding my travel mug, slopping some of the coffee  out. Probably shouldn’t drink it anyway. I flip the cup and dump the rest, keeping my eyes on  these patterns. Again, I’m wondering if I’m the only one seeing this shit, been afraid to ask… wait, no, no, it’s been on the news. Others are seeing the shadows and shimmering this time.  Lynn sees it, too. 
I drop the twentieth case of water onto the living room floor, staggering and sweating. “Jenkins, what the hell are we gonna do with all this?” my beautiful, fed-up wife  sputters. 
“I told ya, something’s wrong with the water. We’re gonna drink these instead.” Lynn keeps her face neutral, her long-hair dyed raven black and her make-up subtle,  eyes flashing. The woman looks twenty years younger than me. I swear she doesn’t age, just  gets smarter and angrier. She hesitates too long so I know she’s worried, thinking I’ve finally  lost it.  
“You see that shit in the sky, same as me?”
Lynn nods, glancing outside, frowning. “They’re not saying what it is yet. Maybe wait to  get a better idea before freaking out.” 
“It’s not gonna hurt to have extra supplies, is it?” I ask, pleading silently with her not to  think I’m crazy or worse say it. 
She shakes her head and smiles. “No, I guess not.” 
“Just promise not to drink the water until it goes away?” 
“Oh, for heaven’s sake. Fine.” 
Good. She’s safe. Now, to warn the others. 
Twelve awkward looks from the circle tell me that most of group doesn’t think this  phenomenon is connected to water contamination. Still, I insist that they avoid the water, at  least until we get some answers. Mostly, they nod politely and agree to stock up. Tom, our soft spoken group leader who definitely saw the shit, limps up to me after group and suggests I  make an extra appointment with my doctor. He puts a strong, comforting hand on my shoulder.  “This strange weather’s agitating everyone. Especially us vets. Get the support you need,  brother, and call me anytime.” 
I put my hand on his shoulder. “And you get some bottled waters and call me anytime.”  Tom never laughs at me, even when I’m being outrageous. I love the hell out of him for it. He  nods, “I’ll get the waters.”  
The explosion rocks the airfield. I jump on the turret truck with the other two men. This  time, as we prepare to foam the plane, a second explosion slams into our truck, setting us  ablaze. My skin drips off my bones in globs and chunks. I rasp, tremors taking over my body. 
The strange patterns in the sky reveal themselves as I collapse, flames licking my convulsing  body. 
I gasp awake, hands trembling, tears running down my face, sweat drenching my shirt.  The sense of clarity I always have when staring out across the water in the early morning rushes  over me as the taste of fire and smoke dissipates, and I’m certain I know what’s in the sky. The  first time I saw the shimmering in 1972, it was the result of a cosmic-level explosion in the  universe, one that barely touched our atmosphere, one only a few noticed, hell, maybe only I  noticed it. The universe always did speak to me more than others. Now, this was the backflash,  an intergalactic one. It’s bigger and more dangerous than the first fire, and it’s contaminating all  our water, maybe even our air. I won’t keep quiet about it this time. 
Doc stares, mouth agape, waiting for me to say more like she always does. I wasn’t  going to say one more word. I can tell by the look on her face I’ve said quite enough. She takes too long formulating her words, so I grab my coat, preparing to leave. “My mind’s perfectly  fine.” 
“Not arguing with that. This phenomenon has us all crawling out of our skin, not  knowing what’s causing it. The stress of this event may be triggering your anxiety around water. We need to wait until the experts figure it out before jumping to conclusions.” 
“Excuse me if I don’t trust those in charge to tell me what’s safe and what’s not.” “That’s completely fair…” Her words distort as a small, pinhole shape forms in the  center of her nose and begins swirling and expanding like those snakes kids light on the 4th of  July. Her face opens up like a charred peony, slowly revealing a mini-blackhole, edges  shimmering. From the swirling hole, a vibration carries a loop containing offkey chords, a guitar 
string breaking, the womp-womp-womp of helicopter blades, and flames blazing. Smoky  tendrils reach toward my face, trying to latch on and pull me inside. Staggering back against the  wall, I struggle to open the door. Eventually, I’m running down the hallway as doc and her burning face chase after me. The faces around me similarly defragment, and the sounds of fire,  guitars, and helicopters form a cacophony that trigger agonizing tremors, disorienting me until I melt down the wall, covering my face and screaming for my wife. 
I can’t keep my eyes off Lynn. Won’t keep them off her, not now, not ever. Her face  looks just like it always has, calm and fierce, beautiful and grounding, a home. No burning,  charring, or swirling. No smoky tendrils trying to consume me. No threat of a giant backflash  sneaking up on my loved ones.  
“I believe you, babe, there’s something really wrong,” Lynn whispers as I strum Let it Be,  one of her favorites. 
The first explosion was more than enough to carry. No one ever reported the truth on  that one, not until they had to, so why would this be any different? The backflash is for other soldiers to fight while I focus on the battle to keep Lynn’s face whole. I’m at home with my girl, and I got my guitar, and it’s helping.


**
