
We shall be left defending, not only the incredible virtues and sanities of human life, but something more incredible still, this huge impossible universe which stares us in the face. We shall fight for visible prodigies as if they were invisible. We shall look on the impossible grass and the skies with a strange courage. We shall be of those who have seen and yet have believed.-GK Chesterton,

I’m not crazy. I’m the only sane person in this crazy world, maybe. I’m a scientist. The work that I do, or did—meteorology—is science. I’ve got a masters degree for crying out loud, when I talk about the weather I know what I’m talking about. You don’t have to believe me, but that’s on you.
I got into meteorology to help people. It’s a small joy—thankless, at times. “Hey, it’s going to rain” and people know to grab an umbrella. People get used to it. They trust me—for twenty years they trusted me to tell them the weather with friendliness and precision. I took the former for granted in my focus on the latter. You live in an area for long enough, even a methed-out cokehead on the street gets an intuitive sense of the weather. So why me? Why listen to me? Because I have science, I have tools that no one else has. Doppler Radar. Scientific thermometers—not the stupid crap you can buy from the department store, real precision instruments. No less than three kinds of barometers. Wind gauges. Twenty-five different kinds of predictive models. I’m not crazy.
I was able to be friendly because I was good, I was secure. I turned down that fancy gig at a cable show in the big city upstate, because that’s not what I want. I like being my hometown’s most trusted weather man. I don’t have an intuitive sense for the whole country, I have an intuitive sense for my town. And every night for twenty years, a few mornings, and through every severe storm, I could come on with a smile and say with confidence— “And now, the weather.” I’m not crazy.
But then, three months ago. This…this cold front comes through, or something. Let’s call it a cold front. I called it a cold front on air. The shimmering clouds, the starless nights. They linger in defiance of me. Me personally. It’s a big middle-finger from the universe or whatever, not to get too woo-woo on you. I’m a scientist, weather is science. I’m not crazy. It’s like…some kind of cold front. You know? It’s something. Just because we don’t understand it doesn’t mean it’s not something. So I’m like, okay, this is weird—in my twenty years I’ve never seen anything like this. Let’s get some data. I get the TV station to set up a call center for reports of the phenomena. I start putting thumb-tacks into maps on a cork board and trying to track things. I try getting observational data, radar.
But here’s the thing—the data is bad. I don’t know how it’s bad, but it’s not showing up. The clouds don’t show on doppler. Of course they don’t, regular clouds don’t show on doppler. Only when they start dropping rain can we show ‘em on radar because the water is so dense. So, okay, dumb idea. But I’m not crazy. I’m like, let’s keep going, you know? Someone—I want to say it was Mags, the news anchor, she and I…well, anyway she got me one of those weather joke things. You ever seen it? A rock hanging from a string? If rock is swinging, it is windy. If top of rock is wet, it’s raining. If top of rock is white, it’s snowing. If the rock is gone, there’s a hurricane. Ha-ha. Very funny. I’m a scientist, setting aside the insultingly reductive methodology there, it was a kind gesture.
But after a couple weeks people stop calling in. Now if you’ve graduated high-school you know why that’s bad—you can’t make conclusions when you don’t have data. I beg people on air to keep calling in. Even if it doesn’t make sense now, it might make sense later—when we know what’s going on we can project backwards through all the data we have. For two weeks straight I begged people to call in, but the line went dead. Management cut it off, it was a waste of resources. Everyone wanted to just get back to work. Get back to their lives.
That’s what got me, that’s what really got under my skin and made it feel like there were sub-cutaneous ants crawling up my arm. Everyone just shrugged and went on with their lives. Guess I’ll taste blood every time I step outside. Guess I’ll turn off the radio and listen to that ominous fucking chorus on my drive to work.
I lost it. And listen—I’m not crazy, I’m a scientist. But even I have feelings. I can lose my cool. I have one bad broadcast. And Carl comes up and he’s like, you can’t say that shit on the air. And I’m like, Why, Carl? Did I hurt your feelings? Does it bother you that I want to actually understand this stuff?
And he’s like, No, but we also have a job to do. Just tell ‘em the weather.
Just tell ‘em the weather. Like it’s that easy. Like I wave a magic wand. The stupid rock can tell you the weather. If you can get your bald-ass mug out of a bag of chips for long enough to look around and stick it out your window, you can tell ‘em the weather CARL. I’m a scientist—and I’m NOT crazy. These things have a rational explanation. We use science. Scientific method. Hypothesis, test, conclusion. Repeat. Iterate. Send up a balloon for all I care, let’s get some freakin’ data.
They sent me home that day. They said I was crazy. Lots of people did—people on the street looked at me funny. I used to be a minor celebrity. You know, I go out to the diner and the waitress is like, “hey aren’t you the guy from the weather”. And yes, yes I am! I’m proud to serve this community for twenty—gah! get it out of my head, that’s the script talking. It’s great. I love it. I love helping people, and I want to help people.
But all around me, people are suffering, and just…shouldering it, you know? Just getting on with their lives, like they can suffer and keep going. And that’s offensive to me, you know? I tell you it’s going to rain so that you can get an umbrella. If you get caught in the rain it’s your own fault. We know why rain happens. But I can’t tell these people what to do, I’ve let them down. There’s no umbrella you can get to stop tasting blood, to stop hearing that bizarre humming. There’s no umbrella to stop the sweet smell some people talk about. So they step outside into the rain and wonder what they can do to not get wet.
But—the best thing they can do to help themselves is contribute data, and now we have none. Everyone just goes to the store and gets their groceries and spits occasionally wondering if it’ll stain the sidewalk red or not. I’m not a bad person for not wanting this for people. I’m not crazy. I feel like I’m the only person who can see it. Who knows that anything is different. Who remembers—and misses—the stars. How an you just go about your day knowing that there’s unexplained phenomena about?
Anyway so when they sent me home, I ordered blackout curtains online. I put my home weather station outside so I could gather data.
And anyway, what’s the use? What good is it doing? Why gather data when no one will acknowledge that there’s data to be gathered? Maybe it’s just a cold front. Maybe it’s a new kind of weather that we’ve never experienced before.
The one thing it can’t be is that I’m crazy. I’m not crazy. The shimmering clouds are shaped like a big middle finger pointed right at me. Whatever it is, it’s targeting me. No one else cares—but I do. And it defies explanation, and I refuse to believe it doesn’t have an explanation.
I can see it. I can see it with my own eyes. I can’t pretend it’s not there. I can’t. I can’t ignore it.
I’m NOT crazy.
I’m not crazy.
I’m not crazy.
BIO
L.R. Scott (aka Scoot) writes Science Fiction, Fantasy, and experiments in other genres at his Substack publication, Gibberish. He has published three science fiction serials set in his Sandbox Earth science fiction universe, and one fantasy serial in his fantasy Blackpage setting. Fans of Arthur C. Clarke, Ray Bradbury, or Isaac Asimov will find plenty to enjoy in his work.

